CTGP-7 v1.08 CommitCompat, revision 6, 2026-10-04

Base: v1.08 r2 LoaderExact, derived from the original v1.07 CTGP sysplugin.
This build preserves the Loader Fixed8 early Rosalina checksum/IV repair and
adds a CTGP-local post-unpack commit-hash fix. The supplied handoff correctly
identified the expected hash, but missed the stack-generated query described below.
It does not use the later r3 runtime-CRC bypass or D6/Test E trace machinery.

LATEST HARDWARE FINDINGS AND REVISION 6
The user reports NONE boots with the same revision 5 .3nx only when Nexus ARM9
reports the Luma hash B3282131. This is a controlled hardware observation from
the user, not an independently reproduced console result. The early Rosalina
repair appears effective; the post-unpack commit interception was incomplete.
The latest DUMP test also did not reach Dump ready and deadlocked. That does
suggest DUMP may never reach the common patch/unlock path. It does not establish
what NONE did, and it does not prove that every commit installation was skipped.
The user withdrew the earlier separate ARM9 exception report; no firmware
changes are part of this revision.

CONCRETE MISSED QUERY
The ordinary GetSystemInfo wrapper at 070A8288 is not the real hash-query entry.
At 07073EB4..07073F54, CTGP constructs a second ARM wrapper and comparison code
on its own stack. The query at 07073F6C uses BLX R3 with R1=10000, R2=1 and R0
pointing to the u64 at SP+68. R3 points to the generated SVC 2A stub at SP+20.
It therefore bypasses the fixed wrapper hook in revision 5. The generated
comparison then checks B3282131 and executes SUBNE SP,SP,#4 on mismatch.
That damaged stack explains why merely preserving decrypted startup words did
not repair the later commit check. The exact eventual console exception still
depends on subsequent execution; this is not a claimed recreation of PC zero.

Revision 6 redirects this call to the verified, already-filtered ordinary
wrapper using one ARM BL. The generated comparer remains intact. The real
captured builder/query/comparer now executes in the ARM fixture: genuine hash
zero fails without the redirect and is accepted as B3282131 with it. The full
u64 result and unchanged successful stack position are checked.

DUMP MONITOR REGRESSION
Revision 5 disabled the Toxt startup monitor throughout DUMP until after unlock.
Revision 6 restores the earlier pre-hold monitor, excludes monitoring during
the held capture, and serializes it with snapshot/compatibility mutations.
Existing Toxt veneers and /Toxt literal redirection are stripped for the clean
initial dump and restored for the live session. The captured copy-return gate
assembly itself is unchanged. This corrects an identified mode regression;
it is not yet proof that the console DUMP deadlock is solved.

EARLIER HOLD FIX RETAINED
The previous CommitCompat candidate issued raw SVC 35 with the target handle
in R0. In Rosalina user mode the libctru wrapper passes that handle in R1,
with R0 initially holding the PID output pointer. That mistake could return
an invalid-handle error (state E5), withholding unlock in NONE/DUMP/RESTORE.
The installer now uses the real host svcGetProcessId API through appended
host-table slot 67; all existing indices stay unchanged. The strict ARM
fixture checks the real wrapper and reproduces the previous candidate hold.

The old menu displayed Restore ready whenever Dump was off, even in NONE.
NONE now displays Applying CTGP compatibility while held. Patch failures
show CTGP compatibility failed plus the state code. Unsupported unpack
signatures use an explicit failure hold rather than a restore-entry veneer.

INSTALL / FIRST TEST
Replace the existing CTGP compatibility .3nx in SD:/luma/plugins/ with
CTGP7-v108-CommitCompat.70.3nx. Do not keep another CTGP .3nx enabled alongside
it. MENU and the normal Nexus dependencies remain required as in the r2 base.
Plugin metadata remains version 1.08. No replacement boot.firm or loader.cxi
is needed: the stacked .3nx contains the Loader and Rosalina plugin entries.

First test with ordinary, unmodified Nexus ARM9 and Dump/Restore = NONE.
A baked Luma commit hash masks a missed query and is not a valid fix test. The brief post-unpack wait
releases automatically after the hook is verified; no ZL/R loader test sequence
is required. Then test DUMP, followed by RESTORE with the clean GOOD post-unpack snapshot
pair through the existing Restore Snapshots menu. DUMP writes the clean snapshot
before installing the commit hook. Both snapshot actions complete the common
patch-and-unlock path directly in the menu, without depending on another
worker tick. NONE also invokes the same path from the worker/options menu.

PATCH BEHAVIOR
After final unpack, find exactly one ARM GetSystemInfo wrapper with the full
push/SVC 2A/pop/two-output-stores/BX LR signature. The known current address
is 0x070A8288. A complete executable-bound scan verifies uniqueness and accepts
a moved wrapper and equivalent single-register PUSH/POP encodings.

Find exactly one generated-query setup/consumer: MOV R2,#1; MOV R1,#10000;
ADD R0,SP,#output; ADD R3,SP,#stub; BLX R3; LDR R1,[SP,#output];
ADD R3,SP,#compare; MOV R0,R1; BLX R3. The output must be aligned and match
the load, the compare starts 24 bytes after the stub, and the output follows
the comparison code. Placement and stack offsets can change. Missing or
ambiguous signatures hold safely instead of guessing an address. The current
query is 07073F6C; redirect it using ARM BL to the verified wrapper.

Replace the ordinary wrapper's first instruction with an ARM B to a permanent
92-byte position-independent trampoline. A dedicated 4 KiB page is allocated
through MENU, then mapped into this game's free address space within branch
range. It is outside CTGP's executable, BSS, heap and snapshot-copy ranges.
MENU's guarded MapPage aliases verify the game mapping and both write sites.
Validate both original/owned instructions before either write, then install
the ordinary wrapper first and query redirect second. Read back both and
restore both originals if verification fails. A wrapper crossing the single
MapPage alias boundary is declined before any guarded read or game write.
Occupied mapping candidates are rejected by the kernel, never overwritten.

For R1/type == 0x10000 AND R2/param == 1, every call returns:
  Result R0 = 0
  output low word R1 = 0xB3282131
  output high word R2 = 0
  R3 = original output pointer; both output words are stored.
Other calls execute the original SVC 0x2A sequence with the original register,
stack, flags, output-store and return behavior. No query-time allocation,
cache maintenance, filesystem work, trace worker, or hook removal occurs.
The hook remains active after VANILLA feature-worker shutdown. The two game
changes are the ordinary wrapper entry and generated-query call instruction.
Global Nexus/K11 identity and other processes do not change.

NORMAL / DUMP / RESTORE ORDER
Normal: early IV repair -> existing unpack rendezvous -> final copy-return
hold -> feature preparation -> install/read back commit hook -> unlock 1.
Dump: same exact post-unpack hold -> clean snapshot write/close -> request 2
-> feature preparation -> install/read back commit hook -> unlock 1.
Restore: early snapshot wait -> preflight -> complete MK7 + 3GX copy and
runtime validation -> request 2 -> feature preparation -> install/read back
commit hook -> unlock 1. The restored first word is never repaired.

Request 2 is never a runnable state; only flag 1 releases the ARM wait loop.
The shared release function serializes menu and worker callers with an atomic
owner, rechecks the request, and makes commit installation/verification the
final game-code patch before unlock. Diagnostics are written after unlock.
The pre-hold DUMP monitor and the entire snapshot operation share the atomic
mutation owner. The monitor is excluded while the late gate is held. Existing
transient wait/Toxt veneers are stripped for the dump as in the r2 base.
Short/failed dump writes and incomplete restores keep unlock clear. A failed
compatibility install also keeps the game held; error -0x227 identifies it.
The MK7-only dump action likewise calls the shared release directly.

An already-successful installer still checks both live branch sites. Copying
another snapshot over them causes both to be reinstalled using the same mapping.
A failed scan/map/write keeps the game held. A can retry restoration.
The older supplied capture also has this wrapper at 0x070A72C0. Its captured
first word fails the unchanged restore runtime-header preflight, so this is
scanner coverage, not a claim that that old snapshot is safe to restore.
An unsupported unpacker is held at the recognized early body if available.
The existing early entry scanner still governs support for unrecognized builds.

EARLY STARTUP REPAIR PRESERVED
Current pre-unpack capture:
  0x07001450: C9A8AD0F -> 30F72D2B
  0x07001D0C: E021C002 -> E51FC8C4
The intermediate E5813408 store at 0x07001BF8 stays intact. No entry-word
repair or forced saved-PC adjustment is applied. All 27 historical assembly
export offsets remain at their original v1.07 positions (SacredAsmStart +7920).

SCOPE / REMOVED EXPERIMENTS
The r2 helper that replaced the global MCU routine with BX LR and NOPed the
self-checker call now delegates to the commit installer. Those original game
instructions are left intact. The custom Toxt/Mii/game features from the base
are otherwise retained. There is no fatal-helper/CRC comparison bypass,
ccsel assignment, forced framework constructor, global commit spoof, temporary
identity swap, or 57-call instrumentation. The Loader source is unchanged.

IF IT STILL FAILS
The existing one-shot startup breadcrumb is now:
  SD:/luma/dumps/memory/ctgp-startup-v108-commit.bin
It is 128 bytes, format 2, build revision 6. Phase 5 means the commit hook was
verified and unlock published; phase 6 means it was declined and execution remains held. It performs
no query tracing. Send this file plus the latest crash dump and specify normal,
DUMP, or RESTORE. validation/decode_startup_status.py decodes it.

Status u32 fields:
  0..15: original r2 startup fields
  16: commit state (2 success; E1..EC failure)
  17: wrapper address; 18: installed ARM B
  19: game trampoline VA; 20: Rosalina source-page VA; 21: target PID
  22: B3282131; 23: unique-wrapper count; 24: unpack gate state
  25: generated-query address; 26: its ARM BL; 27: unique-query count
  31: mode bits (1 DUMP, 2 RESTORE)
Failure states are described by the decoder. This file reports installation,
not proof of successful game boot or ccsel publication.

SOURCE / REBUILD
New files: sysmodules/rosalina/source/ctgp_commit.inc and ctgp_commit_blob.s.
Integration: ctgp.c; pinned layout padding: ctgp_layout_pad.s.
Run bash makeplugin.sh with the usual devkitARM/devkitPRO/libctru environment.
Generated CTGP7.70.3nx is the combined plugin. A source rebuild needs makerom
and the same base Nexus build prerequisites. Matching release Loader/Rosalina
ELFs and new validation scripts/results are included for ARM inspection.

VALIDATION LIMITS
Tests execute the final packaged ARM instructions after self relocations.
Kernel SVC, MENU allocation/mapping, cache operations and FS replies are fixtures.
They verify the real user-mode PID wrapper ABI and reproduce the previous
hold, clean DUMP bytes and write/patch/unlock order, direct GUI restore/unlock,
failed copy/PID/map holds, correct NONE/DUMP/RESTORE labels, atomic release
ownership, repeated spoofing, genuine non-commit SVC ABI, unique/moved/bounded
scans, mount publication, repeated restore, permanent mapping lifetime, the
actual captured stack-code builder/query/comparer, and original copy-return
assembly. The snapshot fixture also verifies stripping/reinstating live Toxt.
VA/PA translation is an identity fixture, and VFP is enabled as on the console.
They do not emulate full encryption, actual console scheduling, HOME/menu
performance, real firmware identity, or hardware boot. Hardware verification
still requires the NONE, DUMP and GOOD-snapshot restore tests above.

RELEASE VERIFICATION
Binary size: 79632 bytes
SHA256: ae43f974393c5af8955c06f3dcd8ecdf2143efe648af887a5d1f5cb2b2164b3b
Checks passed: 364
  commit-results.json: 259
  commit-mount-results.json: 60
  commit-iv-results.json: 28
  arm-results.json: 17

REPRODUCING VALIDATION
Use Python 3 + unicorn 2.x. From the extracted source directory, with the
matching captured files supplied at your chosen paths:
  python3 validation/check_commit.py CTGP7.70.3nx \
    validation/current-rosalina.elf GOOD-post-unpack.bin pre-unpack.bin \
    --old earlier-runtime.bin \
    --prior-plugin validation/reference/prior-CommitCompat.70.3nx \
    --prior-elf validation/reference/prior-CommitCompat-rosalina.elf
The prior binary/ELF are regression inputs, not the release to install.
Input capture SHA256 values are in validation/commit-release-manifest.json.
The handoff contains the original firmware/commit diagnosis; its ordinary-
wrapper-only recommendation missed the generated call. Read these current
notes first. validation/generated-query-evidence.txt preserves the captured
builder disassembly. Test results and patches against r2, the first candidate,
and revision 5 accompany the source.
